## Objective
The purpose of this project is configuration of CI/CD process that will ensure security of the app by automatically checking for presence of vulnerabilities.

Tests performed by the process will include:
 - Software Composition Analysis (SCA)
 - Static Application Security Testing (SAST)
 - Dynamic Application Security Testing (DAST)

Testing will be carried out immediately after new changes being pushed out to the remote repository. Results of this process will affect the process of building new image of the app. 

Effectiveness of the CI/CD process will be checked by intentional introduction of security vulnerabilities in changes. It is supposed to detect flaws in the project and prevent deployment of newly built app image.

## CI/CD Description
After every push to repository, workflow defined in `.github/workflows/release.yml` is triggered. It consists of two jobs: `call-tests` and `docker`.  

`Docker` is the main job, its purpose is to builid a docker image containing the app and upload it to image repository. Tag of newly created image depends on the branch that workflow was triggered from. If the workflow was triggered from branch `main`, image will have tag `latest`. Otherwise tag will be generated from the name of the triggering branch and will have value of `<branch_name>_beta`.  

`Docker` is executed only if `call-tests`, which calls workflow from `.github/workflows/tests.yml`, succeeds.

---
Workflow defined in `.github/workflows/tests.yml` is composed of two jobs: `static-tests` and `dynamic-tests`.  

`Static-tests` is responsible for executing tests on the app that do not require launching it. These include unit tests, SCA tests and SAST tests.  

Unit tests check if functions implemented in the app work as expected for correct and incorrect data. They are part of the code of the app.  

SCA tests check if dependencies of the app contain security vulnerabilities. They are carried out using [OWASP Dependency-Check tool](https://owasp.org/www-project-dependency-check/) and more specificcaly [
Dependency-Check_Action github action](https://github.com/dependency-check/Dependency-Check_Action) which implements easy usage of this tool in Github workflows.  

SAST tests analyze the code of the app in attempt to find security vulnerabilities. They are carried out using [Spotbugs](https://spotbugs.github.io/), a program for finding common bugs in Java code using static analysis.  

`Dynamic-tests` executes DAST tests on the running app. Test docker image containing the app is created and launched exposing a port, allowing to access the app like a user would. Tests are carried out using [Zaproxy scanner](https://www.zaproxy.org/) and more specifficaly [zaproxy/action-baseline github action](https://github.com/zaproxy/action-baseline) which makes easier to use this scanner in Github workflows. Scanner accesses the app using the exposed port and attempts to perform attacks such as injecting malicious code into text inputs elements of the app.

Reports generated by tools are uploaded as artifacts associated with specific execution of the workflow. They can be downloaded and viewed after unpacking.